i'm not going to accept that it can't be
done unless somebody proves it's a zero
probability and often the case you can't
prove it's zero there's always some
non-zero probability and it's typically
the stuff that has that's really close
to non-zero nobody else is touching
that's where the big opportunities are
[Music]
hey everybody welcome to impact theory
today's guest is a profoundly successful
serial entrepreneur who's gone
head-to-head with some of the largest
companies on the planet and won fortune
magazine named him one of the smartest
people in technology and given his
unprecedented string of successes it is
not hard to understand why he's founded
and sold for massively disruptive
companies including the pit which
challenged online giant ebay and had a
successful exit just two years after
beginning he also co-founded diapers.com
destroying the myth that people would
never buy diapers online and
establishing it as such a powerful
player in the industry that it was
acquired by amazon for a staggering
550 million dollars and most recently he
founded jet.com which proved that it is
possible to compete directly with the
juggernaut amazon and build an enormous
business in the process under his
leadership jet.com raced at breakneck
speed to a billion dollars in sales and
subsequently sold to walmart for a
dizzying
3.3 billion dollars again after just two
years in business
now the ceo of walmart e-commerce this
wharton business school grad is once
again demonstrating that the right idea
executed well can thrive against any
competitor
so please help me in welcoming the man
ernst young named regional entrepreneur
of the year the former wannabe farmer
and now storied entrepreneur mark laurie
[Applause]
welcome man yeah thanks good to have you
right now great to be here
and
dude the fact that you did it once
already amazing to do it two three four
times is pretty crazy what is it that
you understand that makes you so
successful that you think other people
are missing
i don't know
it's necessarily other people are
missing it i'm willing to do whatever it
takes like
create a situation where it feels like
life or death billions or body bags
billions of body banks yeah no but in in
all seriousness that
i think is the distinguishing
characteristic because
all four of the businesses there will
all turned out to be successes but
if i didn't put it into that extra gear
i think none of them would have made it
like i i really think you have to you
have to be willing to to go all the way
how do you pull that off though like the
first time i get it because it really is
i know you left the banking uh you
didn't exactly have a safety net and so
the first one really is sort of billions
of body bags but after that i mean
you've had some huge wins yeah how do
you recapture that i always
figure out a way to put myself in a
position where it can't not work and so
you have the first one it was not only
quitting but i also put every dollar in
my bank account into that first company
did you have kids at that point
yeah so what do you just had about that
just had a kid like the number of people
that want to be entrepreneurs that come
up to me and they say look i've got this
litany of things you know i'm married
now i have kids i can't really
do this how did you position yourself
financially and emotionally to pull that
one off i just convinced myself that
i would do this for uh you know a year
or two give it a real go because you had
that much saved up or
the idea was to take everything i saved
invested in the company take a salary
and then but i still needed to raise
capital to kind of continue on and so
i hope that i'd be able to do that and
if i if i was able to then i'd be able
to sustain
worst case wasn't able to raise money
had no more money in savings and had to
go back into the workforce did i think
that i can get back in like was i
you know past the point where of no
return and i thought no you know i'm
seven years into my career worst case i
can
go back and get it get a you know
normal job again
but it was
that was too much of a safety net no you
could always go back it was investing
every penny of savings into the business
that was the real catalyst for making
sure that
it worked and then in the subsequent
business it was less about the money
that was at risk and more
friends and family money
so every relative every friend everybody
i knew pretty much had a stake in the
startup and i just didn't want to
disappoint all the people that i love
and care about you know but so that
drove me more than anything in that
moment so i find that pressure like that
can be powerful for people or can be
really destructive do you think about
framing it in a certain way that makes
it powerful for you like are you sitting
there putting actual words behind the
idea or is it just this overwhelming
sense of like yo i can't [__] this up
yeah it's just it just brings out
abilities you didn't know you had
basically i mean just knowing
that you need to like go all in here and
do everything you possibly can and work
as hard
as it's possible
you know to make it happen it wasn't an
anxiety like oh i can't fail i can't it
wasn't like that it was more just
it's like you don't really think about
it you just go it's sort of you know if
something were to happen
in the moment
you know that was life-threatening
you'd react in a certain way
that you needed to react without having
to think about it that's sort of the way
it is do you consider yourself an
aggressive person
no it's interesting i'm not aggressive
either not by nature but i have found in
business it is like so when i think
about that story of you really backing
yourself against the wall or having your
friends and families money in the
business you're like i really don't want
to mess this up
for me to tap into the aggression which
is that's what i had to learn so for me
to go from an employee to an
entrepreneur it was a game of learning
to be aggressive it was
um being bold striking
even if i was the youngest person or the
least educated that i had to be able to
step up to the plate to learn to try
something to be willing to fail all that
so for me i really had to cultivate an
aggressiveness about myself to be able
to do that so taking things like family
money or whatever which is not my story
but things like that and saying all
right look like actually talking to
myself look man you're not going to [__]
this up you're not going to let these
people down you're going to do it but
it's not going to weaken you like this
is going to make you stronger you got
this stay focused do you have an
internal dialogue like that or
do you have a different approach to it i
didn't really think about it day to day
it was more just
you know i can imagine if it were the
equivalent you know the analogy of like
being in some sort of
bike race
or a marathon or something and you
basically just
bike as hard
and as fast as you can for as long as
your body will allow you to do it it's
like just push yourself so that when you
get across the finish line you're like i
couldn't have gone any faster on this
day right it's just everything i had
went into it and so once you put
yourself kind of into that gear
you're in that gear you're not really
thinking about it you're just i'm just
running as hard as i possibly can to
leave nothing on the table you know how
do you instill that in your teams or do
you
i look to hire people that are
self-motivated
who are more missionary than mercenary
so it's not about what you mean by that
i mean
the primary motivation is not money the
primary motivation
is to make an impact on the world and
the company has a mission it's got a
vision
it's typically bold you want to find
people that really believe in it and
want to you know make a contribution and
be a part of something bigger than
themselves and they're willing to to
work hard at it and yes money will come
and they want money but it's like
secondary some people you know like
having worked in banking for seven years
is very different it's i'll do whatever
you want just pay me and so find people
that are really self-motivated
get them in the right position and then
empower them give them all the
information be transparent trust them
and then just empower them to run and
not micromanage or get in their way and
i find you have incredible leverage when
you have great people and you kind of
let them do their thing
if you had to give a few key
characteristics to what makes somebody
great so one thing i'll say is very
difficult is hiring especially in a
hyper growth company you're having to
hire so fast
what do you what are some key elements
that you look for is it like personality
traits do you look for different
personality traits for different jobs
like yeah i've i've learned so many
lessons along the way and and where i
come out is
and i see this happen a lot of startups
you'll be looking for like a certain
position like i need a supply chain
person to do x
and the initial
um you start from this place of trying
to find someone that's done that before
the chances of finding somebody that's
actually done it before
that's in the top sort of ten percent
for that job and get that person to quit
their job and come work and take the
risk of a startup i found that that's
that's too hard too much of a unicorn
and certainly like you said if you're
hiring lots of people you're not going
to get lots of people like that so then
does that mean you just go after
mediocre people like how do you solve
the problem what i've done is i said
okay find
the the the smartest person i can that
exhibits
the traits that i look to hire for you
know and the traits would be i use the
spatak which is uh smart
uh passionate optimistic tenacious
adaptable kind and empathetic and those
are sort of the the traits that i look
for
and the entire interview process is
trying to make sure that
that people align to those
traits because i find that those people
are more missionary they are more
self-motivated they want to be empowered
they want to do big things
and if you find great people like that
after six months or 12 months or 24
months they want to becoming some of the
top people in their field because they
learn it and they've got all these other
traits there so that's what i found i am
desperate to know what your interview
process looks like
how the hell in an interview do you
figure out spa tech spa tech yeah so how
do you how do you sell that out what are
some key questions do you have them walk
in and it's amazed like how do you get
out of here okay here's this here's a
secret to interviewing for me at least
is never to ask a question that somebody
could have already prepared in advance
okay so that's kind of levels the
playing field so nothing like what's
your strength with your weakness tell me
about some great thing you've done a lot
of that is just people that prepare and
they have good answers and and some
people have mentors or other people that
have been through it and say hey listen
let's prepare let's go through it i do
it my daughter my daughter had the
interview i'm like okay we're gonna like
prepare for this there you go give you a
strength can you wait you know i
clinched the whole thing she won an
interview she nailed it it was like the
same questions i i kind of don't like
that i don't think you could in an hour
which is typical length of an interview
suss out whether somebody has these
traits
if you're just asking sort of the other
thing that happens too i find is that
there's also like an unconscious bias
you know toward people that
do have more connections you know do
have parents that have kind of been
there done that before you know i was
the first person in my family to go to
college very different than my daughters
now and so to avoid their unconscious
bias and also to to make sure that you
take
level playing field i ask questions that
basically
you couldn't prepare for
and really trying to open people up to
see the samples
yeah i'll give you a great example so
one that i ask is
um
what's the minimum amount of money that
you would take
to walk backwards everywhere you go for
a week
you can't tell anybody why you're doing
it if they ask you to say i can't tell
you you have to go to work you have to
go out on the weekends it has to be a
normal week
backwards everywhere the only thing i'll
do is i'll guarantee a safety
and
it's after tax dollars what's the
minimum amount of money that you would
actually take like if you if i wrote you
a check right now you would go and do it
but the minimum people will come up with
with numbers and i'll just press them
i'll say
somebody who
says you know i would i would do it for
five grand i'm like i don't believe you
dude for five grand no this had this has
to be actually you know yeah i would i
would and then i then i go and leave the
room and come back with a check
start writing it out and like whoa whoa
whoa whoa whoa no no i didn't know you
would actually i said i gave you i told
you i told you
you know so basically just having the
discussion like this
is good um i ask people questions like
if you could only be one of the two what
would you be
um
you'd be known to be very nice but not
very smart or very smart and not very
nice you can only pick one
and i find it's kind of interesting some
people like oh of course you know i i
can never not be nice to people so even
though i don't want to be smart i'll
pick very nice and not that smart
and other people like
there's no way i'm going to be that
smart so and it's kind of interesting
it's probably like
i'd say it's probably 60 40
um
asking that question which is a 60. 60
is nice and i don't know how many people
line or just think that's what i want to
hear but probably 60 will say the nice
and that's that's one of the things i'm
looking for i definitely want people
given the choice to prioritize being
nice over being smart it's more just to
get people opening up get them talking
about real things and seeing how they
problem solve how they approach
situations how do you deal with
employees that have like a real
different tolerance for risk when you're
asking them to take a big swing or to
take a chance with you
on a new business i think it's really
tough
to ask people
that are already in the organization
that haven't been vetted through a
process of you know are you comfortable
taking risk and ask them to take rest
now it doesn't work you don't want
somebody to do something that's
contradictory to their their nature you
have to find the right people up front
that's why the startup you have a clean
slate um i found something really
interesting is that
people that have typically gone to
really good schools and done really well
grade wise they're used to getting a's
on everything have a much harder time
taking risk because they just they look
at something that has a low probability
of success and say well why would i do
that i don't i'm out you know i'm used
to getting a's and that's 95 percent so
why would i do something that's 20 well
because the outcome is 200x or 500x
that's why you do it
but a lot of people just can't get
comfortable with that i think that's
different between an entrepreneur or not
somebody who's comfortable with a low
probability of success with a huge
outcome and then you'd go after it and
you're okay failing i failed
so many times as a kid whether it be
academically or otherwise
that i was so comfortable with failing
that it was not even a constant you know
it just meant that combined with just
being
chill generally about things not working
out the combination of that allowed me
to like freely just take risks without
any regard for
for like
maybe failing i love the story that you
have about applying to college and the
non-zero
probability i thought that was really
really a powerful story walk us through
that okay yeah so uh
you know i didn't have good grades in in
high school i really didn't
i
it was this is funny i tell people this
nobody believes the story but it was
sophomore year in high school i remember
walking down sort of the corridor and
somebody was like hey where
where are you going to go to college or
what are you thinking about i said oh
i'm probably just going to go to harvard
and they said harvard like
you can't you're not going to get in
harvard
and i was like
what do you what do you mean don't you
just like kind of send your thing in and
pay and go
like no you have to actually apply and
they have to accept you that was
sophomore year in high schools when i
learned that which is crazy these days
because i've been talking to my
daughters since they were like you know
this year big about college so but yeah
so i didn't really know so i didn't i
wasn't applying myself in school didn't
have good grades
and my dad um had asked me
this is i did all the applying myself
once the colleges myself parents didn't
know what was going on and then after
the deadline this is like in january
february the deadline was like you know
november december applying to college
and my dad said hey uh
um
how's it going how's the college stuff
coming you know where are you going to
apply i said oh i already did i replied
i'm done he's like oh you applied
already what did did you apply to
wharton
because he knew that i knew that that
was i talked about that business school
and i wanted to do business and stuff
like oh no i didn't i didn't apply to
wharton um there's no way i could have
gotten in
and he said oh really there's no way you
could have gotten in zero it's zero and
i said
well
i don't know if it's zero it's pretty
close to zero though and i said there's
a lot of essays and all this stuff he's
like oh so so it's work you you didn't
want to do the work i said no i'm fine
to do the work it's just it's basically
my guidance counselor told me i can't
get in
objectively i don't think i can get in
so
you know i didn't apply he's like
all right he was looking at me and i'm
like all right you're right dad i'm
going to apply you know and uh and this
was after the deadline so this is like
two months later i went did all the
essays did the whole application did
everything sent it in i never forget it
was like may when you sort of got the
letter went up to the mailbox i saw it
it said you know what in school i ran in
i opened it up
yeah i got rejected
um
but but it really taught me a great
lesson because when i was opening that
envelope it really felt nonzero to me
even though it was like i had no chance
of getting in and it was after the fact
you know and it probably was as close to
zero as anything could possibly get but
i just felt like happy that i went
through the process nothing had changed
it was still the same probability but i
was really happy i went through the
process and took a shot and i was
actually i had it at bat that letter
that chance that it could
there's a possibility it could have it
could have said accepted
although it's as close to you and so
i've just taken that in life in general
it's like just i'm not going to accept
that it can't be done unless somebody
proves it's a zero probability and often
the case you can't prove it's zero
there's always some non-zero probability
and it's typically the stuff that has
that's really close to non-zero nobody
else is touching that's where the big
opportunities are when i heard that
story man i was really blown away now of
course i know the punchline of your life
is that it all works out okay
uh so hearing that story after seeing
what you go on to do with your life and
really thinking wow the the vast
majority of humanity dude when they get
that letter and they're rejected they're
like see dad i told you i never should
have wasted my time and the fact that
you take that lesson to
be in that moment i held the envelope it
went from when i didn't even apply i
knew guaranteed i wasn't getting in to
now like there's actually a shot and so
i'm going to pursue that in the future
that i'm actually going to try things
i think that's really powerful and i
want to tie this back to something you
said earlier so part of what you look
for for people is adaptability you also
talked about like you're sort of some
people have a personality this way some
are that way and don't don't put people
against their nature so how much of that
like
i want to believe literally my life is
predicated on the belief that someone
watching this right now hearing you tell
that story they will now forever think
the way that you think about non-zero
probabilities and they will go on to do
something that other people wouldn't do
they weren't born that way they
encountered that information and they
chose to adopt it
how adaptable do you think we are can
you teach that to somebody like could
you teach that to your
children or is that like you have to
have it you don't
yeah i think it's a little bit of both
i think you can definitely be better at
it but i do think there's something
um
something that you're not necessarily
born with but that you're raised with so
after what i said 18 years basically you
know you know at home with with parents
and the friends that you surround
yourself with you're definitely molded
in in a certain way and i think it's
it's tough
to change it dramatically after that you
can certainly push it one way or the
other
um
but you know my starting point was was
way out there you know just just given
the way i was i was raised you know
which was pretty hands off you know what
did your parents teach you was it was it
just the freedom to learn on your own
that was powerful or did they give you
certain things that have really carried
through
i think different things from different
parent i think my my dad was was pretty
sort of non-present and to get his
attention which was not that frequent
you'd have to do something pretty
spectacular which is probably one of the
driving forces to to this mentality like
you know you need to go and do big
things to to
be loved basically you know like in the
world and so that's sort of has been an
internal drive and motivator that i
didn't really know and appreciate until
you know just recently you start to
think through stuff in your life and why
am i this way why does this make me
happy why am i driven to do this and
then you kind of always if you think
about it long enough you tie back to
something in childhood that's sort of
the catalyst and so
i don't know what it would have been
like without that you know and i couple
that and i could have gone the other way
i guess and just been like you know a
bum and just forget it you know like
and i went this other way and i think on
my mom's side i think there was such
incredible empathy and caring and
kindness on this side and that the
coupling
you know
allowed me to to
to achieve what i had set out to do
how do you think of that with raising
your own kids i think the key thing that
i really always
try to instill is the sense of of caring
kindness and empathy
and you can't pick too many things as
you know like it's just kids are not
going to react but if there's one thing
and you want to keep hammering it
there's a good chance that that could
sink in and i think that's kind of how
we approached it it's sort of like let's
go with with the the core you know
be good to people
um treat people as you want to be
treated
be empathetic be kind and just drill
that into them
and not only drill it into them but by
example as well and see that and i think
they have turned out to be very kind
empathetic and and that at the core i
feel good there's
other things that you'd say as a parent
oh well i wish it would be more like
this and more like that or at the end of
the day if you got the the nucleus of
being kind and good
um then everything else everything else
is okay and so that's i would just say
you have to pick something when you're
in banking so you're following a a
relatively um typical path for somebody
who's ultra ambitious i won't say it's
just a typical path but for somebody
who's really got some drive and ambition
i get why you went into that
what was the epiphany that made you
decide that that wasn't for you
when did you know that leaving was the
right thing and how do you structure
your life now to make sure you never go
back to the way that you felt when you
were banking okay sure well i mean just
starting out so in grammar school high
school
i started every business that a kid
could start you know newspapers
car waxing lawn mowing baseball cards
recycling lemonade stands like anything
and so i was quite entrepreneurial as a
kid but there wasn't really
any thought to like go to work for
startup that really wasn't the case i
graduated high school in 89 in college
in 93. it just that wasn't wasn't really
a thing until the late 90s really
um and so
i
for some reason got interested in stocks
in like 10 years old and then
started reading books on derivatives and
stock options when i was like in seventh
grade
eighth grade and i was really into it
and went to bucknell studied finance
knew i wanted to work with stocks went
to work in banking
and seven years into it i had
gone
pretty far pretty fast because i was
willing to work as hard as it took to to
kind of move up i was executive vice
president chief risk officer the
youngest in the bank's history kind of
thing you know it was like it was i
things were going really well but i
wasn't happy
and and it really was interesting i'm
like wow this is this is
as good as i possibly could have
imagined doing
you know six seven years out of out of
college it's making a ton of money
doing really well but i wasn't fulfilled
i wasn't happy and when i was really
thinking about it it i realized that
what i really missed was that sort of
entrepreneurial
kind of feeling that i had as a kid you
know building something from nothing and
so yeah i had this incredible
pull
that that just toured entrepreneurship
and startup
that got to the point where
i i just walked in to my boss's office
and said i'm going to quit and become an
entrepreneur and he's like that's really
funny and i'm like no he's like oh
what's your idea i said well i don't
have an idea yet but so you're going to
quit this job making this amount of
money didn't you just have a kid yeah
that's crazy i said yeah well i'm going
to do it.
he said well you're serious he said well
if you're if you're that serious
i can i be your first investor can i put
50 i think it was 50 grand he said um
and i didn't know anybody with money and
so
that was the seed he introduced me to
two people i met with those two people
they introduced me to a couple people
they should and i wound up i met with
like 200 angel people you know and got
60 investors i have to stop you there
because people at home if they're not
having a seizure right now and desperate
for me to ask the question that i'm
about to ask them they're not paying
attention so all right you're an
insanely hard worker i'll give you that
but there for a guy sight unseen to say
you're quitting you have a kid that's
crazy that that's so risky he's a banker
so he's not exactly captain risk and for
him to go i want without knowing what
you're going to do i want to invest
fifty thousand dollars in you which was
i'm assuming a very smart bet on his
part yeah so
what is it so i i think everybody has
something that they get early wins and
so i'll say for me it was verbal ability
now i've put an inordinate amount
decades of practice into making it
useful
but i definitely got disproportionate um
results out of every amount of energy
that i put in is there something that he
saw in you like yo this guy is so good
at finance i know he'll never [__] up a
business on that side or was it
something else he knew you were a
natural-born leader like what what was
it that he was banking on at that point
i don't know exactly but i would think
it's he probably saw a little bit of
what
i talked about before which is
i won't let it fail
like i'll do whatever it takes billions
of body bags i'll do whatever it takes
you know work as hard as necessary to
make it work
and
i think also i was just naturally really
good at math
which was something
that i was kind of known for which
translates into finance which translates
into other stuff so can we go into the
billions of body bags saying for a
second first of all i'm not a fan of
burn the ships at the shore
but the do or die mentality to me is so
intoxicating i have it very much so it's
exactly the thing that i will say is
because i don't think i'm particularly
bright i don't have any
entrepreneurial skills whatsoever when i
started didn't have a lemonade stand um
but dude when i [__] set my mind to
something that is it and literally i'm
going to see it through no matter what
all the success in the world i've only
sped up in terms of my drive my ambition
the speed with which with i move
and i am so desperate to be able to
package that up to say magic [__]
words to somebody to give them that the
power of desire so that they'll want
things the way that i want things
because it's not in a destructive way
like i'm not not destroyed by you could
take the wealth away it wouldn't matter
that wouldn't phase me it's that sense
of like
dude we have so little time here
so much ability like potential that we
can transform into real skills like how
do you infect people with that that like
is one of the things like i always tell
people if i could give somebody a gift
it would be the gift to have that that
desire the way that i agree that's that
is everything
how do you drive how do you build it in
in you know give it to someone basically
yeah like i want to believe it can be
built right because i know it can't just
be given so i want to believe that
there's a process i think there is but
i'm always super i mean the only thing
the thing i've seen
um is
first of all people need to feel
uh
an intense sense of
uh ownership of their idea
so making sure that you know
so when somebody has an idea you can
help them mold it but it's their idea
and and they have to feel like they're
they're accountable to it to the idea
um and then
um
pushing them to go out there and tell
the world friends family everyone about
their idea and what their vision is what
they hope to achieve and it's amazing
how infectious that can be when somebody
gets out there and they start telling
people like wow that's a really good
idea or oh can you do that or i don't
think you can do that or and you start
whether whether somebody says you can't
do it or they say wow that sounds like
an amazing idea in either case it's
pretty motivating i find the people that
are scared to tell people about it
because they feel like some sense of
like now i'm kind of committed or you
know i've told all my friends about this
big idea i'm going to go do
um so just getting somebody to go out
there it's kind of like you know if you
want to work out they say you know you
know put your shorts your t-shirt your
shoes right next to the bed get out of
bed and put them on and then once you
get them on it's easy to go
um it's a similar kind of thing it's
like once you have your idea start
telling everybody you know about this
idea and how you're going to do it and
usually that kind of starts to snowball
and then people feel a sense of
accountability to it and then
take friends and family money some
people say you know i don't want to take
friends and family money it's like why
well yeah because it's kind of scary
right
um that's always been a motivating
factor you know just
knowing like you've got it's not only
the money but it's also
hold you accountable this is like
everybody you know
will know that this thing failed and
there'll be a monetary proof that it
didn't work
you said that you're equally motivated
by people telling you that it will work
or that it won't work
literally when i look every idea you've
had has seemed like a terrible idea yeah
and yet you've turned it into these
juggernuts
so
one how do you look at that and go no no
i see a path there and then two when
people start telling you especially in
the early days when you did not have the
track record to back it up how did you
deal with doubt other people like
putting doubt on you yeah well i mean
diapers.com is a great example because
it was sort of i said
you know my ideas is pretty simple we're
going to sell diapers on the internet
and deliver them to people's homes so
they could have convenient access to
something that's a pain in the butt um
and then i'd talk to people in the
industry and they'd say well let me tell
you why it hasn't been done it hasn't
been done because diapers are lost
leaders for places like you know walmart
and target and big box so they don't
make any money on it anyway and then now
you want to pay for shipping and you
want to pay fulfillment and they're
heavy and by the way wipes that's
basically shipping water
so
there's no way to make money
and so
and every time somebody says something
can't be done there's also a part of me
that gets a little bit excited because
i'm like okay well then nobody else is
going to do it the big companies aren't
going to do it and then you kind of put
that juxtaposed that against really big
market opportunity because what i would
follow question i would always ask was
okay fine you're not going to make money
but will there be customer demand will
people
want diapers delivered to their door
overnight
at amazing prices and everyone says oh
yeah no there's no
arguing with that people will love that
something okay so the demand is there a
really big market
can't make money so then
thinking about how to solve that well
what if
the diapers the fulfillment the shipping
all that was a loss leader
online to basically sell
that long tail with unlimited shelf
space so similar to brick and mortar's
they use it as loss leader you could
afford to lose more money on on diapers
if you've got million skus to sell them
with limited shelf space that you make
money on
and once i got convicted on that that
that that made sense and that penciled
out
um
nothing was stopping me at that point i
didn't care what anyone what anyone said
and the more people said couldn't be
done the more
fired up it got me so what do you think
stops would be entrepreneurs
what's if you had the so i'll say yeah
it's boredom boredom kills more
entrepreneurs than anything they don't
understand what's coming for them yeah
but in your story i i hear something
else and i wonder if
there's something that you what stops
them after they've already started or
from starting from starting or once they
get going yeah i think from starting and
i know a lot of people that have ideas
first thing is
people
think the idea is not good enough and
they think the idea is way more
important than it really is and people
try and find ideas that have never been
done before which usually result in
niche little businesses i challenge
people all the time to say it's not
about the idea it's about the execution
find and pick any industry out there
there's a way to disrupt it there's
already a big market if you just figure
out a way to do it a little bit better
and execute well
you could make a nice return on on
capital you could take anything take you
know pizza delivery or something and
just say great we know people order
pizza they get it delivered it's great
what's wrong with it oh it comes it's
not hot the quality is not great you
know what other things okay i'm going to
create this it's going to be better
quality faster whatever it is
yeah if you could you go and raise
capital and execute
you'll make that work it doesn't doesn't
have to be
um anything super innovative so i think
that's what holds people back i think
once people get going i think they spend
too much time
thinking about all the things that could
go wrong and they get overwhelmed and it
literally just paralyzes them i'd always
say like forget about all that stuff
today's today what's the biggest step
you can take today toward your vision
well how can you make the most progress
against the vision
today so i always push people to be
really clear about the vision and then
and then they take that step and then
it's the next day and they say well what
no no don't focus on that what's the
biggest step you and as you start lining
up
five six seven
eight weeks months in a row
you're like wow look back made some
serious progress and focus on like how
far you've come
and and keep the vision in mind but
don't get caught up between today and
the vision because you'll just you'll
spin out of control i see that all the
time how do you deal with failure
like surely none of your plans are like
we're doing this and then you just
always no i've so many like before in my
life
so many failures you know growing up in
things and the way deal with it is not
to dwell on it at all
just you just have to basically
as soon as you recognize first of all
being objective about progress
so constantly reevaluating
all the new information so you could
basically say you know here's the vision
and you start marching
and information is coming at you every
day competition things the market the
world whatever
you need to to take in that information
and then kind of reassess constantly so
you can be objective about making
decisions and if you get to a point
where you realize what you thought was
true
a year ago or two years ago is not true
anymore
given all this information now where
where do you need to be
and as soon as you recognize that
being able to tell people i was wrong
forget that i know i said that that was
when the information was this new
information new we're going to pivot and
then get everybody aligned around it but
willing to take that
risk of looking stupid and basically
just changing your mind and sometimes
that happens over a year or two years
sometimes it could be months you could
be months and say you know what wrong
objectively we've got some new
information let's go in this direction
so i think you can't dwell you just have
to reassess
and and go if you're thinking about the
failure or feel bad even for a minute
that's just a minute of lost time going
forward if someone wants to be a great
leader what do you think are the key
traits that they should be developing
yeah it's funny i i get asked this
question a lot and i thought about it a
lot
if i had to pick one and this usually
surprises people i had to pick one trait
of a leader it would be empathy for any
business to be successful
most people would agree you need to have
great people working in the business you
need those people to basically give
everything that the best they've got
um you need to retain those people they
need to be happy like if you really want
to create a a big sustainable business
and then it comes back to well what does
it take for for the ability to sort of
recruit great people
and then keep great people and keep them
motivated it's like well they want to be
happy they want to feel a part of
something okay
like what drives someone's happiness at
the end of the day when you kind of
when you really get into it it's people
want to be understood they want to be
heard
they want to feel like
that there's something bigger than just
dollars and cents in business and i
think being empathetic is putting
yourself in somebody's situation and
being able to
relate to how they feel about
business
situation
things outside of business personal
stuff and
i think that builds a lot of trust and
respect and
people willing to
to be more loyal and committed and
willing to give
the best that they've got when they feel
it's also a feeling of safety too
i think when when
when people feel listened to heard and
understood they feel safer
and a lot of times people don't give
their best or
do their best because they feel unsafe
which brings a whole other topic around
you know just
creating a inclusive work environment
which i think is super important and i
think empathy plays a big part of that
so going beyond empathy because i know
some seriously empathetic people who are
not good leaders
so i'll say that is necessary but not
sufficient that's true
what else are things that people should
be working on if they want to lead i
think entrepreneurs
should be thinking about what i call vcp
vision capital people
at least 80 percent of the time
and i really focus
probably more than that percentage on
those three things
it's
constantly you know thinking shaping
molding the vision
and articulating it over and over and
over so that everybody's crystal clear
on where we're going what's the north
star
you know making sure that you
set your org structures under the people
bucket set your org structure in such a
way that you can put people
in spots where they've got end-to-end
ownership i don't like creating
organizational structures where you know
you don't really know who's responsible
for what so thinking about the org
structure getting that nailed bringing
in the very best people in each area
is the sort of p part and then and then
making sure that you're able to go out
and raise the capital which involves
selling your vision
a lot of entrepreneurship is about
selling selling the vision to to
investors selling the vision to
employees and then packaging it all up
and and i think a good leaders are able
to do vcp really well on the people part
of it
the single most important thing
the outside of empathy i would say is
is about
empowerment
i would say especially in a startup
where you're hiring fast and moving fast
you have to be able to empower people
which means set the
vision
let them know you know
what part of the org they're going to
represent and what they're
responsible for and then just let them
run let them create
not get in their way not micromanage you
know i think if you really want to get
the best out of people especially people
that are self-motivated um
it's it's let them let them do their
thing and
give them a chance to show what they
what they can do
you've talked about the power of culture
and core values yeah when you started
jet.com what were the core values core
values let you guys yeah was trust
transparency and fairness interesting
and the reason why i picked those three
and one another thing that i would say
about core values to anyone that's
thinking about core values is and i've
learned this lesson is you can't start
with a list of 10. if you get like a
bunch of people in your management team
together and you start doing a list they
all sort of converge to a similar list
to 10 things you know you know and
integrity and
and excellence and all this all this
stuff i think
for the core values to really be core
it has to be three or less
and you have to be prepared to live
those values as a company in a way that
no other company in the world does
and it's not just values like
don't confuse them with traits you're
looking for like the spate don't don't
confuse it with that these are values
that the company things that company can
do
to create a culture and so when we pick
trust transparency and fairness reason
why we picked those three
is because we felt those were the three
most important values
um to lead to empowerment so if you want
to
someone who feel empowered you got to be
transparent as a company meaning be
willing to share information share
financials share sensitive information
be really open and know that there's a
risk that it could get out and that but
that's you know but be transparent trust
people so you trust them obviously with
the information but also to to do their
job not to get in their way we didn't
have a non-solicited agreement
non-compete agreement we trusted people
and it was more of a of a handshake come
work here and
we're going to give you information that
you won't get at other companies we'll
trust you in a way that you've never
been trusted before and we're going to
create a fair
safe work environment when you were
starting out what was the secret to
raising capital i get now you have a
track record there's going to be a lot
of people that would bet on you side
unseen at this point
uh
but what was the key in the beginning
how did you convince people to give you
money
okay so the first was the pit
that i really raised money for which is
an online sports stock market um that's
where i raised i did 200 investor
pitches so first thing i'd say is
prepared to do a lot of pitches people
when they tell me like like i'm having
trouble raising money i'm like oh tell
me how many people have you talked to i
sat with probably like five or six
people and it wasn't really a lot of
interest like five or six that's
something about 500 you know it's like
so the first
company i i met with 200 people
60 of them made an investment which is a
pretty good hit rate you know almost one
in three i still still tell people
there's 140 people that i gave the full
pitch to that said no i don't want to
invest so even though it's a great hit
rate um still way more people are going
to say no but the thing that put
a lot of those 60 people over
was the fact that they saw the passion
that i had for the for the idea and the
commitment i was making not only for
quitting my job
but i invested 390 000 dollars into the
business and they looked at the sheet i
remember this one investor very
specifically garnett he looked at the
sheet and he goes i see here you
invested 390 can i just ask
i've never seen that before why didn't
you round to 400. i said well i only
have 390 000.
and he's like
all right i'm in put me in it was like
immediate you know and and that sort of
triggered for me i didn't realize at the
time that that was actually you know
uh gonna be gonna be as valuable as it
was but i started to use that with
investors after i'd say you know i i've
invested you know my entire life savings
in this business that's how much i
believe in it you know and they're like
are you committed are you really gonna
like yeah my entire life savings is in
it i have i was making this salary i'm
making zero salary now yes i'm committed
that's what got a lot of people over the
home so i would say if you're raising
money from angel investors it doesn't
need you don't need to have a network
because i knew nobody it was just my
boss and he introduced me to two people
it's find one person ask them to
introduce for a couple people and then
each person you um pitch
asked to introduce you to a couple
people and you just and so the network
just grows and that's the way i did it
it was no connections a lot of people
think you need connections you need to
know people you need
there was no venture capital there was
no institutional investor the first time
it was five million bucks of just you
know 80 000 a pop on average basically
among 60 people so that's how i started
that's crazy man yeah dude look your
your string of success is so gnarly
congratulations how can people stay in
touch with you how can they learn more
i've been the last year i've been sort
of active on linkedin i don't really
have time for other social media stuff
but linkedin i try and you know once a
week put a post i get an idea about
something i could think could be helpful
to folks and i'll sort of
post it on there so that would be the
best way i guess perfect yeah all right
last question what what is the impact
that you want to have on the world what
is the impact
that's a big question i just
i mean the way i live my life every day
is i try and
um
do what i was telling you i do with my
kids and just trying to be empathetic
and and give back and
um
you know be you know give more than i
take and i think that's kind of the
impact i want to make give as much as i
possibly can
without
asking or taking much back in return
amazing man yeah
well guys he is starting to put out a
little bit more content i would say
drink it all in what he has done is
beyond extraordinary to be that all in
in your life to gamble on yourself to
learn from your mistakes to grow and
just continue to execute at a higher and
higher level and that may be the most
important thing that he said execution
is far more important than the idea so
speaking of executing if you haven't
already be sure to subscribe and until
next time my friends be legendary take
care
all right thank you man that's [__]
amazing
while he was here on this planet
in his human form
he did something to make the planet
better off because he was here he paid
really good rent and was happy because
of it